Task Of Day1:

Hello ,
My name is Vatsal Vijaykumar Shah.
I am currently pursuing B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering from DIT UNIVERSITY.

Ques 1.What is git and gitHub?
Git-Git is installed and maintained on your local system (rather than in the cloud) and gives you a self-contained record of your ongoing programming versions. It can be used completely exclusive of any cloud-hosting service — you don’t even need internet access, except to download it. Git is responsive, easy to use, and inexpensive.
GitHub-GitHub is designed as a Git repository hosting service. GitHub is a for-profit service (although basic repository-hosting features are available at no cost to those who are willing to create a user profile.

Ques 2.Why gitHub is so popular in most of the project?
It provides cloud storage for source code, supports all popular programming languages, and streamlines the iteration process.

Ques 3. What is a version control system? How Git is a VCS?
Version control is a system that records changes to a file or set of files over time so that you can recall specific versions later. For the examples in this book, you will use software source code as the files being version controlled, though in reality you can do this with nearly any type of file on a computer.
There are 3 Version Control Systems :
1) Local Version Control Systems
2) Centralized Version Control Systems
3) Distributed Version Control System
Git as a VCS:-
Advantages:
1) A complete long-term change history of every file. This means every change made by many individuals over the years.
2)Branching and merging. Having team members work concurrently is a no-brainer, but even individuals working on their own can benefit from the ability to work on independent streams of changes.
3)Traceability. Being able to trace each change made to the software and connect it to project management and bug tracking software

Ques 4.What are the other platforms similar to github?
Bitbucket
GitLab
Phabricator
Sourceforge

Ques 5. Why are you interested in learning of Git and Github?

I am interested in learning git and github because I always had confusion in using github and also I wanted to learn how to use it and clear my doubts.

Regards,
Vatsal Shah

Task Of Day 2:

Hello everyone ,
My name is Vatsal Vijaykumar Shah. I am currently pursuing B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering from DIT UNIVERSITY.
Task-2
https://github.com/VatsalShah3/myFirstRepository
1. How git work flow works?
Ans- The Gitflow Workflow defines a strict branching model designed around the project release. This provides a robust framework for managing larger projects.  Instead of a single master branch, this workflow uses two branches to record the history of the project. The master branch stores the official release history, and the develop branch serves as an integration branch for features. It's also convenient to tag all commits in the master branch with a version number.

2. What are the different stages of a git project as commit, add?
Ans- There are 3 stages of git project:
1)	Modified:
Git we can create a repository, a repository is basically a kind of a directory that contains all the files related to your code. So, in the repository we can write code, and maintain it. This is called Modification, i.e. making some additions to the original project.
2)	Staged:
Staging area is place prior to the actual implementation of changes, i.e. this area contains all the added files that contain new code, which are ready to be joined to the remote repository.
3)	Commit:
Commit is a set of new files that are being added to a project as part of the modification.
3. Is it possible to do git commit before git add. If you have made any changes? Explain why?
Ans- No it is not possible to do a git commit before git add because first of all we have to do git add to save all the changes made in the file and after that we have to do git commit to record it. 

4. Why is git diff used?
Ans- Git diff is a multi-use Git command that when executed runs a diff function on Git data sources. These data sources can be commits, branches, files and more. This document will discuss common invocations of git diff and diffing work flow patterns.

5. Can we leave the commit message as blank?
Ans- Git generally requires a non- empty message because providing a meaningful commit message is a part of good development practice and good repository stewardship. The line of the commit message is used all over the place within git hub.

Regards
Vatsal Shah.